Welcome back everyone to this lecture on SELECT DISTINCT sometimes a table contains a column that has
duplicate values and you may find yourself in a situation where you only want to list the unique or
distinct values in that column the distinct keyword can be used to return only the distinct values in
a column the distinct keyword operates on a column.
So that means the syntax looks like this.
We say select and then distinct right in front of whatever column were is said in grabbing the unique
or distinct values from and then we'll specify what table this column is in sometimes to clarify which
column distinct is being applied to.
You could also add in parentheses for clarity.
So note that distinct on a column works with or without parentheses.
This is what it would look like with parentheses and again it'll work without parentheses as well.
Later on when we learn about adding more calls such as a count call and a distinct call together some
sort of parentheses structure will actually be necessary to clarify what is actually being called on
a what.
But we're going to see that in a future lecture let's first think about what does that actually means
call distinct on a column Imagine a table of people who were surveyed to choose a color.
So here we have the names of the person just their first name and then the color choice they made let's
imagine we actually call it select distinct from the name column from The Color table.
We'll notice that we have two instances of David inside this name column which means when we actually
select distinct names from this table it's going to return back the following just the unique first
names in this actual column.
Keep in mind that given the previous example we don't really know if the person of the named David was
the duplicate entry who happened to change their color choice later on as the same person or if it was
two different people that happened to have the same first name calling distinct on this particular column
just answer the question what are the unique first names that are there in that table or in that column
it probably makes more sense to ask how many types of unique color choices were there.
So what we can do is say select distinct choice from the color table.
And here we have all the distinct or unique color options that were chosen let's go ahead and see a
couple more cases of when distinct would be useful.
We're gonna jump over to P.G. Adelman All right.
Here I am at the query editor but I'm going to do is first explore the film table and there's different
ways I can do this.
This is a pretty small database I could either expand on this film table to see what columns are available
fill my D I can scroll over here title description or I could just say the following.
Select everything from film and it's OK to do this since this is basically kind of a toy database and
toy table it's not gonna be huge.
So we'll go ahead and just run that and we can see here we have the film I.D. the title description
released here.
Language I.D. and I can keep scrolling to see other information and other columns that are available
inside of this film table so let's think about what kind of questions the state can help answer distinct
really helps when we want to know the unique values inside of a column.
And if we take a look at these actual tables here something we may want to know are how many different
release years do we have inside of this film database and what we can do here is say select distinct
and I'll put it in all caps since we're treating it as a sequel keyword.
You can see it's highlighted as such and then we'll call it on release underscore year from film.
So if I run this what's happening here is it's going to return back just 2006.
So this quickly answers the question how many unique release years we have inside this film table and
it ends up we just have one.
All of these films were released in 2006 if we take a look back at this I should also note that we can
add in parentheses and we can see here that it's directly connected to distinct and if we run this we'll
get back the exact same results.
And for some people this is more legible coming back through old school queries.
It works either way.
So it's really up to you if you want to use parentheses or not.
Let's come back and take a look at the entire table again just so we can check out the columns.
You'll notice here we have the release here.
Something else that's interesting are these rental rates and it does look like we had different numeric
rental rates so some movies rent for four ninety nine.
Some rent for 99 cents.
Others rent four to ninety nine distinct can help us answer the question how many unique rental rates
do we have what we can do then is just say select distinct and with or without parentheses we can say
on rental rate we'll go ahead and run this and here we can see that we have three distinct rental rates
essentially a low tier make sense to name the nine and four ninety nine.
Later on we'll be learning how to actually sort these or order them based off a certain value.
But right now Postgres sequel just returns back information as efficiently as possible.
So you may actually get these in a different order depending on your operating system.
All right.
That's it for the lecture on select distinct.
Coming up next we're going to quickly test your new skills by giving you a quick little challenge on
select distinct.
I'll see their.